README.md, before:

demo
--------

Testing...

Deploy a branch of web app to a server with a git push and view the app at branch.somedomain.com

Demo is a command line utility to be used together with
[node-haproxy](https://github.com/michieljoris/node-haproxy). With it you can
can amongst other things stop, start, remove branches and add and remove repos

# Quickstart

To see the whole thing in action without using a external server use the included
Vagrantfile:

    git clone https://github.com/Michieljoris/demo.git
    cd demo
    vagrant up
    vagrant ssh

Add your public ssh file to ~/.ssh/authorized_keys, then:

   node-haproxy --ipc

In another terminal on the host add this to /etc/hosts

    demo.local 10.0.0.2
    someapp-master.demo.local 10.0.0.2
    someapp-somebranch.demo.local 10.0.0.2

Use this command line utility: 

    ssh vagrant@demo.local demo [params]

By setting an alias this can be shortened to:

    alias demo='ssh vagrant@demo.local'
    demo command [params]

In a some github repo of a web app named someapp, in the master branch:

    git remote add demo vagrant@demo.local:repos/someapp/bare
    demo create someapp #creates bare git repo on server

Add a file called demo.json to the root folder of your app:

{
    "start": "node server.js -p PORT",
    "restartOnCheckout": false
}

Replace 'node server.js with the command to start your server, You need to add
the option to set the port and set it to PORT. It gets replaced with an actual
port when demo executes the command. Other branches will use this demo.json as
well. If some branch is using a different start up command give it its own demo.json.

Then in the repo:

    git add -A; git commit -m 'added demo.json'; git push demo master

You should then be able visit the app at someapp-master.demo.local

Then:

    git push demo somebranch

Visit this branch at someapp-somebranch.demo.local

Rinse and repeat for other repos and branches

## Install on server

Npm needs to run without sudo, see provision-node.sh. If you have a new server
just copy the script to the server and execute it, you can then also skip the
rest of this section and setup the domain for the server:

    git clone https://github.com/Michieljoris/demo.git
    cd demo; npm install
    npm install -g forever
    ln -s ~/demo/src/command.js ~/bin/demo

Also make sure your installed scripts can be executed over ssh if you
don't want to ssh into the server to issue demo commands.

I had to put the path to my ~/bin dir at the front of .bashrc to make sure
PATH gets set even when issuing commands using ssh:

{ echo 'export PATH=~/bin:$PATH'; cat .bashrc; } > tmpfile; mv tmpfile .bashrc

Start the node frontend for haproxy. It starts its own instance of haproxy and
an ipc server so haproxy can be controlled using the demo command utility (it
uses the node-ipc module):

    forever -l ~/node-haproxy.log -a start ~/demo/node_modules/node-haproxy/bin/node-haproxy.js --ipc

# Setup domain:

Get a wildcard domain to point to your server and decide what network and port
to bind the frontend proxy to, then execute:

    demo domain somedomain.com 
    demo bind network:port # for instance *:8080

# Use

You can manage the server with the demo utility you installed on the server.

Calling it without arguments  will output this:

    Help:
    create repo              : create a bare git repo on the server
    delete repo [branch]     : delete repo or just a branch
    urls [repo]              : list urls (or just for repo)
    url repo branch          : print url for repo-branch
    checkout repo branch     : access branch at repo-branch.domain.com
    start repo branch        : start web server for branch
    stop repo branch         : stop web server for branch
    online repo branch       : put web server online for branch
    offline repo branch      : take web server offline for branch
    log repo branch          : print log of server in branch
    exec repo branch         : execute command in branch folder
    bind network:port        : set network:port of frontend proxy [*:8080]
    default repo branch|port : set proxy to repo-branch or port [5000]
    domain domain            : set frontend wildcard domain [demo.local]
    range minPort maxPort    : set available port range [8000-9000]
    info                     : print config and server status
    haproxy                  : print haproxy configuration
    v or version             : print version
    h or help                : print this help text

    To add a remote to a repo:
    git remote add demo user@demo.com:repos/myrepo/bare

    Serve app online at myrepo-branch.domain.com:
    git push demo branch

online/offline basically add/remove an rule in the frontend section of the
haproxy.config

start/stop actually stop/start a server. To enable a server a server to start
add a file called demo.json to the repo your demoing with the following content:

{
    "init": ["echo 'this is not yet implemented..'"], 
    "start": "bb-server -p PORT",
    "restartOnCheckout": true
}

Whatever command you set for start it should contain the capitilized word
'PORT'. It gets replaced with an available port within a certain range (see
demo.js);

Any output from the server to the console gets written to out.log in the
branch's folder. Read it with 'demo log repo branch'

The server needs an outside port open, and haproxy needs to bind to it, use
something like 'demo bind *:8080' to set/change it. The included haproxy runs in
user space so you can't bind to a port under 1000. If you want your demo urls to
be without port install something like rinetd of fiddle with ip-rules to
redirect port 80 to the haproxy proxy.

Wipe a branch or a whole repo, including all its branches with delete repo
[branch]. This also kills the servers involved. 

The checkout command is meant for use in the git post-receive hook. It checks
out a branch from repos/<repo>/bare to repos/<repo>/branches/<branch> and starts
the server if demo.json is found in the branch folder. 

Execute a command in a repo/branch folder with exec repo branch.

You HAVE set the correct domain name .If you use an online server you need a
wildcard domain pointing to it. If it is *.somedomain.com, you need to set the
domain variable in demo.js to somedomain.com

You can set a default server or repo-branch to proxy to for requests of the root
domain, or of non-existent wildcards. (somedomain.com, or blabla.somedomain.com).

You can set a port range if you like, but it doesn't really matter, as long as
there are enough ports available within the range for all your branches.

Get info on internal config and data structures with info and haproxy.

How it all works is that the demo utility on every invocation finds the pids of
all servers withing a certain range.It then looks for the current working
directory of all those pids. The ones that match a
repos/<repo>/branches/<branch> folder are running demo servers. It makes sure
that haproxy.config is set up properly to match the current server status.
Haproxy will then route something like somerepo-somebranch.somedomain.com to
the right server.

This is easy to manage and pretty foolproof, as long as a server (script) does
not change working directoy for its process. Rogue (within range, but wrong cwd)
and orphan servers (cwd deleted) also get picked up but are not managed at the
moment. I am not and don't need to record and store pids and ports.

Node-haproxy is a long running process. The demo util only runs as long as is
needed to execute a command. ipc-node is used to communicate between the two
processes.

# Notes

To forward port 80 to the frontend haproxy is binding to: 
[https://www.debian-administration.org/article/601/Easily_forwarding_arbitrary_TCP_connections_with_rinetd]()
sudo apt-get install -y rinetd


# Todo

* ssl
* node-haproxy is still a bit flaky, as in it can crash on wrong commands, just
restart it, I use forever to get  around this. It doesn't really matter if it
crashes though, as long as it gets restarted, which forever takes care of..
* implement running the 'init' command in demo.json on first checkout of a branch.
* work out how to use dnsmasq to simulate local wildcard domain for Vagrant
* make it work with node install under sudo, node-ipc stops communicating.

Commit message:

Expanded functionality of demo.json
start can be "foo=bla;bar=ba;start-server' and foo and bar are set as
env vars
demo init foo bar will execute file name in demojson.init relative to
home dir, and pass repo and branch to it.

README.md, after:

demo
--------

Testing...

Deploy a branch of web app to a server with a git push and view the app at branch.somedomain.com

Demo is a command line utility to be used together with
[node-haproxy](https://github.com/michieljoris/node-haproxy). With it you can
can amongst other things stop, start, remove branches and add and remove repos

# Quickstart

To see the whole thing in action without using a external server use the included
Vagrantfile:

    git clone https://github.com/Michieljoris/demo.git
    cd demo
    vagrant up
    vagrant ssh

Add your public ssh file to ~/.ssh/authorized_keys, then:

   node-haproxy --ipc

In another terminal on the host add this to /etc/hosts

    demo.local 10.0.0.2
    someapp-master.demo.local 10.0.0.2
    someapp-somebranch.demo.local 10.0.0.2

Use this command line utility: 

    ssh vagrant@demo.local demo [params]

By setting an alias this can be shortened to:

    alias demo='ssh vagrant@demo.local'
    demo command [params]

In a some github repo of a web app named someapp, in the master branch:

    git remote add demo vagrant@demo.local:repos/someapp/bare
    demo create someapp #creates bare git repo on server

Add a file called demo.json to the root folder of your app:

{
    "start": "node server.js -p PORT",
    "restartOnCheckout": false
}

Replace 'node server.js with the command to start your server, You need to add
the option to set the port and set it to PORT. It gets replaced with an actual
port when demo executes the command. Other branches will use this demo.json as
well. If some branch is using a different start up command give it its own demo.json.

Then in the repo:

    git add -A; git commit -m 'added demo.json'; git push demo master

You should then be able visit the app at someapp-master.demo.local

Then:

    git push demo somebranch

Visit this branch at someapp-somebranch.demo.local

Rinse and repeat for other repos and branches

## Install on server

Npm needs to run without sudo, see provision-node.sh. If you have a new server
just copy the script to the server and execute it, you can then also skip the
rest of this section and setup the domain for the server:

    git clone https://github.com/Michieljoris/demo.git
    cd demo; npm install
    npm install -g forever
    ln -s ~/demo/src/command.js ~/bin/demo

Also make sure your installed scripts can be executed over ssh if you
don't want to ssh into the server to issue demo commands.

I had to put the path to my ~/bin dir at the front of .bashrc to make sure
PATH gets set even when issuing commands using ssh:

{ echo 'export PATH=~/bin:$PATH'; cat .bashrc; } > tmpfile; mv tmpfile .bashrc

Start the node frontend for haproxy. It starts its own instance of haproxy and
an ipc server so haproxy can be controlled using the demo command utility (it
uses the node-ipc module):

    forever -l ~/node-haproxy.log -a start ~/demo/node_modules/node-haproxy/bin/node-haproxy.js --ipc

# Setup domain:

Get a wildcard domain to point to your server and decide what network and port
to bind the frontend proxy to, then execute:

    demo domain somedomain.com 
    demo bind network:port # for instance *:8080

# Use

You can manage the server with the demo utility you installed on the server.

Calling it without arguments  will output this:

    Help:
    create repo              : create a bare git repo on the server
    delete repo [branch]     : delete repo or just a branch
    urls [repo]              : list urls (or just for repo)
    url repo branch          : print url for repo-branch
    checkout repo branch     : access branch at repo-branch.domain.com
    start repo branch        : start web server for branch
    stop repo branch         : stop web server for branch
    online repo branch       : put web server online for branch
    offline repo branch      : take web server offline for branch
    log repo branch          : print log of server in branch
    exec repo branch         : execute command in branch folder
    bind network:port        : set network:port of frontend proxy [*:8080]
    default repo branch|port : set proxy to repo-branch or port [5000]
    domain domain            : set frontend wildcard domain [demo.local]
    range minPort maxPort    : set available port range [8000-9000]
    info                     : print config and server status
    haproxy                  : print haproxy configuration
    v or version             : print version
    h or help                : print this help text

    To add a remote to a repo:
    git remote add demo user@demo.com:repos/myrepo/bare

    Serve app online at myrepo-branch.domain.com:
    git push demo branch

online/offline basically add/remove an rule in the frontend section of the
haproxy.config

start/stop actually stop/start a server. To enable a server a server to start
add a file called demo.json to the repo your demoing with the following content:

{
    "init": ["echo 'this is not yet implemented..'"], 
    "start": "bb-server -p PORT",
    "restartOnCheckout": true
}

Whatever command you set for start it should contain the capitilized word
'PORT'. It gets replaced with an available port within a certain range (see
demo.js);

Any output from the server to the console gets written to out.log in the
branch's folder. Read it with 'demo log repo branch'

The server needs an outside port open, and haproxy needs to bind to it, use
something like 'demo bind *:8080' to set/change it. The included haproxy runs in
user space so you can't bind to a port under 1000. If you want your demo urls to
be without port install something like rinetd of fiddle with ip-rules to
redirect port 80 to the haproxy proxy.

Wipe a branch or a whole repo, including all its branches with delete repo
[branch]. This also kills the servers involved. 

The checkout command is meant for use in the git post-receive hook. It checks
out a branch from repos/<repo>/bare to repos/<repo>/branches/<branch> and starts
the server if demo.json is found in the branch folder. 

Execute a command in a repo/branch folder with exec repo branch.

You HAVE set the correct domain name .If you use an online server you need a
wildcard domain pointing to it. If it is *.somedomain.com, you need to set the
domain variable in demo.js to somedomain.com

You can set a default server or repo-branch to proxy to for requests of the root
domain, or of non-existent wildcards. (somedomain.com, or blabla.somedomain.com).

You can set a port range if you like, but it doesn't really matter, as long as
there are enough ports available within the range for all your branches.

Get info on internal config and data structures with info and haproxy.

    demo.json: { init:'filename', start: 'start command' }

Start can be "foo=bla;bar=ba;start-server' and foo and bar are set as
env vars.

demo init foo bar will execute file name in demojson.init relative to
home dir, and pass repo and branch to it.

# Inner workings

How it all works is that the demo utility on every invocation finds the pids of
all servers withing a certain range.It then looks for the current working
directory of all those pids. The ones that match a
repos/<repo>/branches/<branch> folder are running demo servers. It makes sure
that haproxy.config is set up properly to match the current server status.
Haproxy will then route something like somerepo-somebranch.somedomain.com to
the right server.

This is easy to manage and pretty foolproof, as long as a server (script) does
not change working directoy for its process. Rogue (within range, but wrong cwd)
and orphan servers (cwd deleted) also get picked up but are not managed at the
moment. I am not and don't need to record and store pids and ports.

Node-haproxy is a long running process. The demo util only runs as long as is
needed to execute a command. ipc-node is used to communicate between the two
processes.

# Notes

To forward port 80 to the frontend haproxy is binding to: 
[https://www.debian-administration.org/article/601/Easily_forwarding_arbitrary_TCP_connections_with_rinetd]()
sudo apt-get install -y rinetd


# Todo

* ssl
* node-haproxy is still a bit flaky, as in it can crash on wrong commands, just
restart it, I use forever to get  around this. It doesn't really matter if it
crashes though, as long as it gets restarted, which forever takes care of..
* implement running the 'init' command in demo.json on first checkout of a branch.
* work out how to use dnsmasq to simulate local wildcard domain for Vagrant
* make it work with node install under sudo, node-ipc stops communicating.
